Add mappers doc (#384)
tarantool/cartridge-java: docs/MappersAndConverters.md

[Main page](../README.md)

# Converters, mappers and mapper factories
In order to convert data from MessagePack types to basic Java types (`int`, `double`, `String` and etc.) and back, you need mappers.

> The mapper contains a list of converters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The mapper contains a stack of converters.
```

For each type a converter is selected by the following logic:  

> 1) The mapper chooses the first matching converter from the end of the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1) The mapper chooses the first matching converter from the top of the stack (the one that was added last).
```

2) That is, the one for which source type equals type of data to convert and `canConvertValue` or `canConvertObject`
(depends on converter type see [creating your own converter](#creating-your-own-converter)) method returns `true` for that value.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3) If this converter is not applicable, the mapper checks the next topmost converter after it.

```

> ## Using default mappers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using built-in mappers
```

See an example of `DefaultMessagePackMapper` usage:  
https://github.com/tarantool/cartridge-java/blob/d9ca853b6008137c2ea6c68a0246a68d43771d31/src/test/java/io/tarantool/driver/mappers/DefaultMessagePackMapperTest.java#L39-L82

Also, you can get required mappers from `TarantoolClient`:  
https://github.com/tarantool/cartridge-java/blob/d9ca853b6008137c2ea6c68a0246a68d43771d31/src/test/java/io/tarantool/driver/integration/ProxyTarantoolClientIT.java#L584-L592

## Choosing the target type

> If you want to manually choose target type by getting values from tarantool's tuple, use `get{targetTypeName}` methods

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to manually choose the target type for a particular field in a tuple, use `get{targetTypeName}` methods
```

> like `getInteger`, `getString` and others see entire list in [TarantoolTuple interface](https://github.com/tarantool/cartridge-java/blob/master/src/main/java/io/tarantool/driver/api/tuple/TarantoolTuple.java)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
like `getInteger`, `getString` and others.  See the entire list in [TarantoolTuple interface](https://github.com/tarantool/cartridge-java/blob/master/src/main/java/io/tarantool/driver/api/tuple/TarantoolTuple.java)
```

https://github.com/tarantool/cartridge-java/blob/d9ca853b6008137c2ea6c68a0246a68d43771d31/src/test/java/io/tarantool/driver/integration/ClusterTarantoolTupleClientIT.java#L76-L87

## Creating your own converter
To create your own converter from Java basic types to `MessagePack` type you can implement `ValueConverter` interface and override `fromValue`, `canConvertValue` methods.
Let's look at the converter implementation. This is default `FloatValue` to `Float` converter (`FloatValue` is a `MessagePack` type):
https://github.com/tarantool/cartridge-java/blob/d9ca853b6008137c2ea6c68a0246a68d43771d31/src/main/java/io/tarantool/driver/mappers/converters/value/defaults/DefaultFloatValueToFloatConverter.java#L14-L32

> If you need converter witch will convert `MessagePack` type to Java basic type (`int`, `double`, `String` and etc.) you can implement `ObjectConverter` interface and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need converter which will convert `MessagePack` type to Java basic type (`int`, `double`, `String` and etc.) you can implement `ObjectConverter` interface and
```

override `toValue`, `canConvertObject` methods:  
https://github.com/tarantool/cartridge-java/blob/d9ca853b6008137c2ea6c68a0246a68d43771d31/src/main/java/io/tarantool/driver/mappers/converters/object/DefaultFloatToFloatValueConverter.java#L13-L21.

Default `canConvertObject` and `canConvertValue` implementation always returns `true`.
If any value of source type can be converted to target type you do not have to implement these methods.

## Adding converter to mapper
To add `MessagePack` type converter to the mapper use method `registerValueConverter`:  
https://github.com/tarantool/cartridge-java/blob/d9ca853b6008137c2ea6c68a0246a68d43771d31/src/test/java/io/tarantool/driver/mappers/DefaultMessagePackMapperTest.java#L156-L170

To add Java type converter use method `registerObjectConverter`:  
https://github.com/tarantool/cartridge-java/blob/d9ca853b6008137c2ea6c68a0246a68d43771d31/src/test/java/io/tarantool/driver/mappers/DefaultMessagePackMapperTest.java#L175-L187

After adding converter to the mapper this converter will have maximum priority

> because it will be added to the end of the mapper list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
because it will be added to the top of the mapper stack.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Converters for container types (like lists and maps) can use mappers inside too, such converters (and mappers holding them) will be in fact recursive.

```

## Creating your own mapper

> If you need to set the structure of the received tuple, use mapper factory:  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to work with a custom structure of the received MessagePack objects, e.g. from a custom Lua method,  use the mapper factory:  
```

[Main page](../README.md)

# Converters, mappers and mapper factories

> In order to convert data from MessagePack types to basic Java types (`int`, `double`, `String` and etc.) and back, you need mappers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to convert data from MessagePack types to basic Java types (`Integer`, `Double`, `String` and etc.) and back, you need mappers.
```

Small correction, we don't use primitive types for integer, double for parsing

The mapper contains a stack of converters.
For each type a converter is selected by the following logic:  
1) The mapper chooses the first matching converter from the top of the stack (the one that was added last).

> 2) That is, the one for which source type equals type of data to convert and `canConvertValue` or `canConvertObject`
> (depends on converter type see [creating your own converter](#creating-your-own-converter)) method returns `true` for that value.

Reviewer 2: I would divide this point into two points and make it simpler.

```suggestion
2) Check that converter is suitable
    * The source type equals the input type of converter
    * `canConvertValue` or `canConvertObject`((depends on converter type see [creating your own converter](#creating-your-own-converter))) should return true
```

3) If this converter is not applicable, the mapper checks the next topmost converter after it.

## Using built-in mappers
See an example of `DefaultMessagePackMapper` usage:  
https://github.com/tarantool/cartridge-java/blob/d9ca853b6008137c2ea6c68a0246a68d43771d31/src/test/java/io/tarantool/driver/mappers/DefaultMessagePackMapperTest.java#L39-L82

> Also, you can get required mappers from `TarantoolClient`:  

Reviewer 2: What does `required` means in current context?

```suggestion
Also, you can get the default mapper stack from `TarantoolClient`, change it, or use it:   
```

https://github.com/tarantool/cartridge-java/blob/d9ca853b6008137c2ea6c68a0246a68d43771d31/src/test/java/io/tarantool/driver/integration/ProxyTarantoolClientIT.java#L584-L592

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note: be careful changing the client mapper, it's used as the default mapper for API(`call`, `space(spaceName).select`, ...)

```
